Virtual private clouds (VPC)
Amazon Web Services (AWS) Virtual Private Cloud (VPC) is a service that allows users to create and manage their own virtual private network (VPN) in the AWS cloud. This allows users to have complete control over their own network environment, including the ability to select their own IP address range, create subnets, and configure route tables and network gateways

Subnets for your VPC
A subnet is a range of IP addresses in your VPC.

Subnet types
The subnet type is determined by how you configure routing for your subnets. For example:
• Public subnet – The subnet has a direct route to an internet gateway. Resources in a public
subnet can access the public internet.
• Private subnet – The subnet does not have a direct route to an internet gateway. Resources in a
private subnet require a NAT device to access the public internet.
• VPN-only subnet – The subnet has a route to a Site-to-Site VPN connection through a virtual
private gateway. The subnet does not have a route to an internet gateway.
• Isolated subnet – The subnet has no routes to destinations outside its VPC. Resources in an
isolated subnet can only access or be accessed by other resources in the same VPC.

Route Table:
A route table contains a set of rules, called routes, that determine where network traffic from your
subnet or gateway is directed.

Private IPv4 addresses
Private IPv4 addresses (also referred to as private IP addresses in this topic) are not reachable over
the internet, and can be used for communication between the instances in your VPC.

Public IPv4 addresses
All subnets have an attribute that determines whether a network interface created in the subnet
automatically receives a public IPv4 address (also referred to as a public IP address in this topic).

Subnet
A subnet, or subnetwork, is a segmented piece of a larger network. More specifically, subnets are a logical partition of an Internet Protocol (IP) network broken into multiple, smaller network segments.